**Meeting notes from Zoom call at 9am GMT 22nd March 2024. Second meeting at 3pm is further down**

Present:
Zam Iqbal, Martin Hunt, Boas van der Putten, Jane Hawkey, Laura Carroll, Liz Batty, George Bouras, Gerry Tonkin-

JaneH and Dan Anderson - will split running of AMRFinder+ 
Laura Carroll - already running BGC from GECCO. plus GTDB Bacillus_A BTyper A
Gerry volunteers E coli ST

Jane suggests use pathogen.watch MLST (they have a docker container, Martin will heklp turning it into singularity)

George Bouras will do prophage annotation, needs to wait for bakta, then some harmonising so consistent with bakta.
I've pointed him at Wendy Figueroa and Daniel Cazares to combine forces.

Boas will have a think about Strep pyogenes

Matthew Croxen has offered to run any of

Streptococcus pneumoniae Pneumokitty, Streptococcus agalactiae GBS-SBG, Streptococcus pyogenes Emmtyper, Haemophilus influenzae Hicap, Escherichia coli Ec_typer, Shigella spp. Shigatyper
[Jane Hawkey says there is a more recent tool from FX], Bordetella pertussis/parapertussis BPAgST, Salmonella enterica SISTR, Neisseria gonorrhoea NG MAST, NG STAR, Klebsiella pneumoniae (lots of "complex species here so may wish to go to genus to cast a broader net) Kleborate, Listeria monocytogenes Lissero, Neisseria meningitidis meningotype, Legionella pneumophila Legsta

ZAM FORGOT to mention Lesley Hoyles (Klebsiella oxytoca-related genomes (grimontii, michiganensis, pasteurii, oxytoca), and Klebsiella ornithinolytica and Klebsiella planticola) and 
and Jonathan Thomas (Staphylococcus epidermidis and/or other coagulase-negative/non-aureus staphylococci)

Slightly rambling discussion about ways to
a) coordinate who is doing what/what is being done for each species
b) Gerry had an idea of allowing people to do their own typing of things and publish their results (eg on their own github) but have that centrally "advertised"/linked on an AllTheBacteria website.

Last year Nabil had plans to use a github mod/thing called Zen for project management, will see if he still has energy for this.
Generally people happy with Oliver Schwengers suggestion of a directory structure constructed from sample id, with species/tool/taxid injected in there perhaps.


**Meeting notes from Zoom call at 1500 GMT 22nd March 2024.**

Present: Finlay Macguire, Maria Luisa Andreani, Martin Hunt, Robert Petit, Nabil-Fareed Alikhan

Finlay would like to talk to Adrian Cazares about plasmid contig identification
Finlay would also like to use this data for a wider AMR database harmonisation project
Rob Petit will happily test the mof-search and convert to nextflow
Rob also has a lot of compute power available and will be contacting Oliver Schwengers in case he needs help with processing Bakta

Bakta apparently runs AMRFinder+, so we need to make sure Oliver and Dan Anderson talk, otherwise we will run AMRFinder+ twice.

We started setting up some project management on the AllTheBacteria github, Zam needs to finish this off
(sorting out allowing others to contribute to it).

Discussed potentially using OSF as a way to distribute the analytic products


**Actions**
1. Zam, Martin, Dan are going to make a 0.2 release in the next few weeks. This will remove contigs from some assemblies that map very well to human. We will in that process remove release 0.1 assemblies (as there is human contamination there). The release will also have search indexes and a snakemake workflow for aligning sequences to the full set.
2. Zam will share the indexes and snakemake with Rob Petit for external testing prior to release.
3. Zam to sort out the project management aspect on the github and to make a (google? or in the repo?) sheet with species and volunteers and tools they will run.
4. We need a checklist of what you need to do for your contribution to be accepted. One key thing is you use precisely identical identifiers to those we have for the assemblies. No switching of . to + or whatever, and Nabil/Fin advocate for a simple csv with all the data or pointing to filenames. We should formalise this.
5. Zam needs to followup with various volunteers who contacted over email but are not on Slack, and who he forgot to contact.
We don't need to sort out 4 before people start processing I suppose, but sooner is better




